# Contemporary Issues In Data: Uses of Digital Contact Tracing during Covid-19

In this document, I discuss two articles about the applications of digital contacting tracing technologies during COVID-19 time with the purpose of helping tracking users’ movements through GPS, location data and Bluetooth technology. I present and discuss the uses of the technology and handling of the personal data from different countries’ (East Asia and United States) perspectives.

## Article 1: How Digital Contact Tracing Slowed Covid-19 in East Asia 

The Harvard Business Review’s [How Digital Contact Tracing Slowed Covid-19 in East Asia](https://hbr.org/2020/04/how-digital-contact-tracing-slowed-covid-19-in-east-asia), it discusses that East Asian countries including China, South Korea, Singapore have had striking success slowing the Covid-19 pandemic thanks to the help of digital contact tracing technologies under the governments’ infection controls. The technologies deployed can collect data on the virus’s progress by tracking movements of those people who are infected and their contacts. 

The article analyses the effectiveness of the digital contract tracing through three aspects. First of all, in East Asian countries, the adoptions of needed technologies including installation of tracking apps on phones are more mandatory than voluntary. Citizens are encouraged by government to install the tracing apps such as “TraceTogether” used by Singapore. Secondly, the digital infrastructure in these countries have been improved through recent experiences in handling epidemics such as MERS in South Korea and SARS in Taiwan. It enabled responses of disaster management faster both technologically and institutionally. Besides, China uses its vast existing system of digital surveillance for Covid-19 tracking. The third aspect talks about the business-government collaboration which information sharing between central government and giant tech firms are important to control Covid-19. In China, the heavy public dependency on mobile app created by Tencent and Alibaba was effectively leveraged by the Alipay Health Code that assigns users into categories based on Covid-19 risk factors using self-reported and collected data. 

Overall, the article shows that the success of digital contact tracing technologies in East Asia is due to the scale, speed and a degree of compulsion. It argues that Western democracies may find this approach difficult to implement due to data privacy and sanctity of individual rights which are viewed essential to citizens in western countries. Although Apple and Google have teamed up to design a software into phones that could perform contact tracing, it will take a long time to be effective if it is voluntary adopted due to the lack of trust in data security. 

## Article 2: Early Covid-19 tracking apps easy prey for hackers, and it might get worse before it gets better 

Politico's article [Early Covid-19 tracking apps easy prey for hackers, and it might get worse before it gets better](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/06/coronavirus-tracking-app-hacking-348601) shows another point of view on the digital contact tracing technologies from United States’ perspective. It argues that those tracing smartphone apps is creating a potential jackpot for hackers worldwide. The U.S started to use these contact tracing apps from May in last year with a huge public debate about what data to collect and who should have access to it. Cybersecurity stands out as the main problem as these apps are highly vulnerable to attack and could expose data from usernames to location data. Also, US has its own unique vulnerabilities including a fragmented collection of apps (no main national app), tiny state cybersecurity budgets and stalled legislation in Congress.  

The contact tracing app, Care 19, used in North Dakota had been leaking user’s location data to digital marketing service, and researchers found a vulnerability that data from these apps could be abused in many ways as hackers can obtain sensitive information including names, national ID, health status and location data. The article argues that in the U.S, security oversight is particularly weak. One national coronavirus app that U.S government has put out sent unencrypted transmissions which further worsen the trust in data security. Most apps use centralized system which collects and stores users’ information in a centralized database which the big database could be a richer target. 

For the technologies to be useful to flatten the Covid-19 curve, enough people need to adopt it and they will not do it until their data is secure enough. Considering all the factors related to privacy and data security, digital contract tracing technologies should be required to include risk and vulnerability assessment for the product and to tell users where the data would go. And government need to enact security policies and practices that will help the tech adoption. 

